# Dedicated Admin Operator

## Summary
The Dedicated Admin Operator was created for the OpenShift Dedicated platform to manage permissions (via k8s RoleBindings) to all the projects/namespaces owned by the clients. The idea is to monitor the creation of new namespaces and add the proper permissions for the dedicated-admins, a group of local admin (not cluster admins) managed by the client.

It contains the following components:

* Namespace controller: watches for new namespaces and guarantees that the proper RoleBindings are assigned to them. 
* RoleBinding controller: watches for rolebinding changes, if someone removes a dedicated admin RoleBinding, the controller adds it back 
* Operator controller: watches the operator's namespace to install resources that cannot be installed by OLM (service and servicemonitor)

To avoid giving admin permission to infra/cluster-admin related namespaces, a blacklist is used to determine which namespaces should get the RoleBinding assignment.

## Metrics
The Dedicated Admin Operator exposes the following Prometheus metrics:

* dedicated_admin_blacklisted: gauge of blacklisted namespaces

## On OLM and Bundling

OLM can deploy a resource that is bundled in a CatalogSource. But OLM won't update it. And OLM won't delete it if it's removed in a future version of the CatalogSource. There are two other options for managing these resources. 1) controller in the operator code or 2) manage it externally. Option #1 is a lot of work, though it does cover the cases where a resource is deleted. Option #2 is less work but has a gap in that fixing a broken config requires external action.

In July 2019 a PR switched to option #2, relying on Hive to manage the resources via SelectorSyncSet. Hive will fix anything that breaks within 2 hours or a human can force it to sync by removing the related SyncSetInstance CR. It means no go code to manage the resources and a simpler deployment. This means ALL resources move out of the bundle.

We can go back to bundling in the future when OLM will manage bundled resources. It's causing pain now. Hive will reconcile resources moving forward.

# Building

## Dependencies

- oyaml: `pip install oyaml`

## Makefile

The following `make` targets are included.

- clean - remove any generated output
- build - run `docker build`
- push - run `docker push`
- gocheck - run `go vet`
- gotest - run `go test`
- gobuild - run `go build`
- env - export useful env vars for use in other scripts

The following variables (with defaults) are available for overriding by the user of `make`:

- OPERATOR_NAME - the name of the operator  (dedicated-admin-operator)
- OPERATOR_NAMESPACE - the operator namespace (openshift-dedicated-admin)
- IMAGE_REGISTRY - target container registry (quay.io)
- IMAGE_REPOSITORY - target container repository ($USER)
- IMAGE_NAME - target image name ($OPERATOR_NAME)
- ALLOW_DIRTY_CHECKOUT - if a dirty local checkout is allowed (false)

Note that `IMAGE_REPOSITORY` defaults to the current user's name.  The default behavior of `make build` and `make push` will therefore be to create images in the user's namespace.  Automation would override this to push to an organization like this:

```
IMAGE_REGISTRY=quay.io IMAGE_REPOSITORY=openshift-sre make build push
```

For local testing you might want to build with dirty checkouts.  Keep in mind version is based on the number of commits and the latest git hash, so this is not desired for any officially published image and can cause issues for pulling latest images in some scenarios if tags (based on version) are reused.

```
ALLOW_DIRTY_CHECKOUT=true make build
```

## Docker
The Dockerfile provided (in `build/Dockerfile`) takes advantage of the multi-stage feature, so docker version >= 17.05 is required.  See `make build`

## OLM
OLM catalog source is not generated by this codebase, but the `make env` target is created to support this process.  See [osd-operators](https://github.com/rogbas/osd-operators) [subject to rename / moving].

# Controllers

## Namespace Controller

Watch for the creation of new `Namespaces` that are not part of the blacklist.  When discovered create `RoleBindings` in that namespace to the `dedicated-admins` group for the following `ClusterRoles`:

- `admin`
- `dedicated-admins-project`

## RoleBinding Controller

Watch for the deletion of `RoleBindings` owned by this operator.  If a `RoleBinding` owned by this operator is deleted it is recreated.

## Operator Controller

OLM currently cannot support creation of arbitrary resources when an operator is installed.  Therefore the following are created by this operator by this controller at startup:

- `Service` - for exposing metrics
- `ServiceMonitor` - for prometheus to scrape metrics from the `Service`
- `ClusterRoleBinding` - for `dedicated-admins-cluster` `ClusterRole` to `dedicated-admins` `Group`


Note the creation of `ClusterRoleBindings` is possible via a `ClusterServiceVersion` CR, used to deploy an operator.  But it can only have a `ServiceAccount` as the subject.  At this time you cannot create a `ClusterRoleBinding` to other subjects in a `ClusterServiceVersion`.


Create resources in the operator's `Namespace`
